Welcome to AV testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and
Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing leadership agile and
anything else that comes tomorrow now on with the show here we are again hey
Brent hey hey Alan happy new year wait no we did a show in the new year no
yes we did well you didn't post it didn't I no what is wrong with me that you're
just telling me this now yeah happy new year no I don't believe I still don't
believe you we did a show in 2025 we have not dude you're lying I am NOT
episodes what is our last episode the recap oh did we not do a show I did hold
on we didn't happy f'ing new year bro happy I thought we did one did we record
like on I thought for sure no no we had we had both you and I having to read
jigger I am multiple times I am just not buying this okay I gotta look here now
to we have not recorded a show this year you are correct holy cow it's been a
long hiatus oh my gosh well somebody there the day told me that you can stop
sharing your screen that they didn't tell me that what they told me was that
you guys are slowing down I thought yeah we had to skip a few but man I
didn't know it's been like a month so welcome back those of you that have
been waiting refreshing your podcast app frantically trying to see when the next
episode was coming it's you're hearing it now yeah I don't know when I'm gonna
get it edited and posted but yeah I just looked at the stats cuz I'm like oh so we
haven't done one in a month and then the one we did before that was a month oh
well but before that was two weeks oh then a month it's a it's a good thing
we're not paying per episode we're not paying we could do more small one thing
we didn't do in the year in review anything like me entertaining oh no that
we do every year this last time this last time we didn't do the whole like
where are we gonna be this time next year thing oh we didn't track like did
we do that theater before we did let's do that a little later in the year let's
talk about the I'm not ready to look ahead we have my team put together a I
can't even too many details a really good road map I can talk a little bit about
this so we have I joined like many platform engineering developer
experience orgs there's a whole bunch of big migrations going on for a year
I've been dreaming of getting to a place where you know it would be great if we
weren't migrating stuff or consolidating stuff we just kind of work
on smaller more incremental things that help develop make developers lives easy
year and we're kind of there we have a good road map for the year I feel good
about it and then we had another big project it's half public so I won't talk
about it too much but we have to do a whole crap ton of unplanned work to make
a big company wide thing work so roadmap beautiful roadmap crumple it up
throw it over your shoulder try to hit the trash can so yeah that's what's
going on planning is invaluable plans are useless oh yes anecdotes from
brandy anymore did I ever we went over the weasel laws once I actually have
like 10 now I've done those before we don't need to do those again so um
what's new did that was it stand to bring fun things to your it's 2025 it's
2025 we didn't say nineteen hundred and eighty three we said nineteen eighty three
we can say 2025 2,000 to five stop it stop it if you probably say daylight
savings time to with an s I think and I'm aware that that's wrong and I
probably do and I think the correct solution is to just get rid of the damn
things yes agreed so that we fix everyone's grammar mistake all right
Friday Friday January 24th 2025 at 348 p.m. Brent and I have agreed on
something go a be testing yeah um new Santa got me a bunch of cool games got a
puzzle I got a drone I've never owned a drone oh it's fine on the neighbors no
actually all I've done with it so far is charge the batteries oh nice how
back though I think it went fine the red light turned green oh good yeah pretty
prided there right yeah that's great all right most exciting thing I would say
that I've done at least in in our household is that I fixed our 3d printer
because because drama was beginning to which 3d printer do you have
elegy elegy Neptune pro 3 okay don't know that one we have a bamboo and a couple
of realities here why do you have three at least three mrs. mrs. weasel does a
lot of 3d printing for for all kinds of actually good good reasons so is she uh
are you guys like get your own back at sea market no no long story she's
electrical engineer and design some casings and packaging for the thing she
builds in 3d Britain she's a whiz with the tools if you know what I mean because
this I have is a 3d you know Philip Phillips you yeah do you have those I
don't have any I don't there okay I have them and one of them one of the things
you can buy is sort of a remote right that specific remote so you don't have
to use your phone or whatever 3d printed a faceplate to go over my light switch
and then the remote goes there and said oh nice yeah it's a good use good use I
want to I have a topic I thought of today this is probably gonna write about
this in my what even you know what not only have we you know I haven't done
my five for Friday I'll get to that later but I also haven't written I
didn't write a weekly blog post last week I wrote every week for like except for
when I was hiking gone on a hiking trip I wrote every week for like I don't know
I almost every single week for two years and I've slowed down a little bit lots
of stuff going on distracted blah blah blah but one topic I was gonna write
about and I'll get to in a second is I'm after work into it so have you heard
of AI Gen AI it's really it's kind of popular yeah I've heard both these terms
yeah yeah so there's a thing from github called co-pilot which you may know about
I helped you write code I love it because people are using co-pilot I am
getting because I my team manages our github contract and deployment and
turning all the features on center etc they're coming up hey we're gonna
measure we want to measure the the impact of developer productivity by
co-pilot I say and I say that sounds exciting how are you going to measure
developer productivity oh can you tell me how to measure developer productivity
and I look at them and I'm I most the time I'm very very nice and I ask them
how do you count how many bones are in 10 gallons of mayonnaise and and then
they get mad so my answer to that is triangle yes yes so but as we know and
like I'm gonna go with a little bit people going well you can measure
developer productivity via how many things they click on and you can't and
measuring there have been articles about measuring developer productivity for
probably 10,000 years since they invented words maybe not that long but
close to that there is no great way consistent way to measure it other than
I was like I was talking to Brent's like not paying attention you just have to ask
people do you feel more productive is there's some things there's some
correlation stuff you can do around bug rates if it's slowing them down they
look at how long PRs are open there are probably are some correlations but it's
it reminds me of two things one every company in the world claims to weaken
took up our tools and measure your Dora metrics that the four big the key
metrics but I'm gonna repeat the miracle look them up what those people fail to
recognize time and time again is oh god stop it stop showing me Bing searches
of crap what people I'm talking here I'm going I have the talking stick what
people fail to recognize is that the whole Excel the survey that Dora does is
based on well the metrics that from Dora are survey results not hard
measurements are not putting metrics into somebody's report they're asking them how
long does it take how long is your cycle time how long does it take you to
fix a bug in production etc etc those key metrics that correlate with high
quality are asked via survey so putting a metric system in place those things
does not make you in fact shooting at those targets does not necessarily make
you better those are correlations if you're if you're good at delivering
software those are things that'll happen naturally now same thing with
developer activity you have to ask people some questions some subjective
questions around to get it you can put a few objective objective measures around
it not going to get there so finally the question I'm getting this all the time
like months and months and months of people either asking me how to measure
dev productivity or telling me they have a way to measure dev productivity and I
try not to roll my eyes it is the exact same thing to me as it was 15 years ago
when people will come to me and say oh I've a question I forgot to ask you how
do you measure quality it's not the same because it is it is because there is we
talked about code correctness there's engineering quality which is one thing
that you absolutely can measure the quality of engineering practices you can
do all kinds of stuff on on incoming bug rates and and and etc etc but quality is
the value to the person the other end right and but productivity so they're
they're both things that need to be measured largely subjectively in no yes
calling bullshit call it you'll be wrong go ahead no no community the
actual community has defined both of these terms multiple times of God right
um so efficiency and actually so I this used to be a thing in in my agile
coaching decks I'm waiting yeah because people what's the big thing about
combat work in progress work in progress why is that important so you
don't over tax off cognitive load trying to do anything so once focus on
getting things done not on doing things right so of course I am what is the
definition if you're if you're maximizing doing things flow that's
efficiency if you're maximizing doing things I don't know no it's efficiency
so think about your your water heater I have a definition but I
much work how much work does it do versus the the amount of cost all right
so wait one of the challenges with getting teams to onboard to Angela back
in the day I was they would always talk about but what do you mean if I go with
whip then there's gonna be times where people are idle right that's by design
you cannot go fast if you don't have capacity right a fully utilized team is
very similar to a fully utilized freeway it's a parking lot right okay well
productivity is essentially can be measured particularly in the Kanban world
because in the Kanban world your ticket sizes are roughly the same size so
productivity is the rate at which the team gets things from start to done okay
so what you're saying now let me let me do two things to that first of all
audience would you think of that all right so what you're saying is you guys
can't you guys can't see it on the video feed but I'm I'm curtine thank you
if you have if you're a mature team you can use some tools that exist within
your system to measure some aspect of productivity okay so if assuming I get
what you're saying I would argue most teams in the software world I can
safely say it's about where I work do not have that love anywhere near that
level of maturity in their project tracking and that does not work and
but the other thing I want to point out even better is okay then why evidence
number two why does the top hit for an article on measuring dev productivity
via co-pilot the thing that they're asking about is co-pilot making more
productive why is the study done by there based almost entirely on
subjective survey questions well so there's two things that you would want
to cover right if you're only fucking you want to know does AI improve the
business and to what degree it is causing harm to your human resources
right meaning hey if if we get happier people at the same time as productive
people that's fantastic it is now here is one thing though that I will
arm you to push push back on okay because is the productivity because it's
making them more productive or because of a principle that I hold very near and
dear and that is happy people are productive people that's again that is
so engagement drives productivity as well it does it does and engagement
usually measured via survey questions but yes sure and the thing is the thing
is right for me from my personal experience with get hub co-pilot it does
both yeah yeah and that's again that's that's an important thing to measure you
can't measure happiness via how you measure happiness via metric mood rings
you Oh Bluetooth mood rings of course on all the devs well so actually I'm gonna
I'm gonna monitor dev productivity by how happy people are when they code the the
rate at which college college hires suddenly convert to alcoholism I don't
know that would be the other way around oh that's just not for the kids that's
where the grown-ups do right no the so measuring it the best tool we have today
is absolutely something surveys right you could do my bio metrics or some
I'm being prohibitive yeah I will also call out right one of the and we've
talked about it how to measure everything anything yeah and the name of
the book and I'll just tell you he absolutely won me over he's he one of his
one of his chapters is specifically on quality can you measure quality he stands
by yes you can measure it via confidence levels ish all right I don't
think you can I don't think there is a set of metrics that put this way what do
I measure to measure quality the answer is it depends what do I measure to measure
dev productivity the answer is it depends and it there's just no blueprint
available there's no like quick thing oh yeah just measure these things will
tell you if you're a director or not it takes it's it's like reading the
end of the book first like yes it can work if a whole bunch of other pre
requisites are in place but for the for the generic non-microsoft non like not
not Microsoft Netflix Amazon Google whoever who actually you know I would
say are more elite engineering than a lot of the rest of the industry or
media companies for example they do they there's a lot of work to do to get to
a place where measuring dev dev productivity is the thing that's gonna
help you tweak your system it's like trying to put it's like no that's not
what's that's not how it's being used today it's not about tweaking your system
like did you see the report from from Salesforce just a couple weeks ago the
one you just banged for me no that's a different one okay that was around how
they measure productivity you have not seen no I don't think I've seen that
it was like in the first week of of two thousand two five just bite me they stated
that they are not hiring a single software engineer in 2025 and it is due
to the fact that they have calculated a 30% productivity boost because of the
inclusion of AI and their dev practices hmm that's a big bet it is a big bet and
and honestly when people are like well what do you think about that and I'm
like well I'm like you and I both actually he doesn't work there anymore
but but an old boss of mine used to work at Salesforce I know how internally
they operate yeah they're very they're very agile they follow very much agile
practices um so I absolutely think that they could measure to a degree that they
are confident about to make a decision like this and the part of the argument
I'll concede before I want to go back and pivot based on what you just said is
that again if you have a bunch of if you're mature and have a bunch of
processes in place then you it's much much easier to measure dev productivity
if all your stories are different sizes and you have constant interruptions and
you don't have work in progress you don't have a fit it's hard to measure
but so I'm mostly right I'll give you a little bit of credit one thing you said
that the Salesforce thing is interesting and I want to segue this
into the second half of our conversation is sure ever since Gen AI came out it's
kind of like when automation came out for testers like oh is it good group
of our jobs AI came out and we said no AI is not gonna get rid of your jobs
people who know how to use AI may and now but what a lot of the people a lot of
the people who were worried about automation getting rid of their jobs it
did in fact get rid of their job that's what we're seeing with AI and that's what
I want to talk about okay I think we're seeing I I don't I don't think it
replaces everyone but it makes everyone else a lot more efficient and what does
that look like like well I have my own dark thoughts about it but I'll let you
leave like where what is AI going to do to the tech industry oh I think it's
going to I think it's going to bring us all down from our high horse okay please
expand okay so here's what I see happening today um and we haven't talked
in January so yeah there's a bunch of things that I think okay number one there
is a trend that I noticed in January I didn't notice the trend but I it's
something that I have talked about on this podcast for a while but I saw a
report that was talking about a trend that they had noticed okay and that
trend was essentially data scientists are having a difficult time finding a
job mm-hmm have I talked about that yeah well you predicted that like three years
ago so I'm not surprised okay the the reason why they're having a hard time
finding a job is number one because a lot of teams with with with Gen AI and
other AI tools feel they don't need to invent something new through AI okay um
but the one that's the most interesting data scientists the ones that are being
turned away are being turned away because they can't code and so we're
going to we're going to see the rise of the data science generalist or the T
shaped data scientist can't they well specialists are always gonna be in
trouble we know that right but can't they just use Gen AI to do their code for
them to if I'm a data scientist and I don't know how to code oh no I just get
my AI to code for me and I and I'm not the T shaped that was an interesting so
there was another study and I mean when I come across these things I need to
save them so that I can post them in the podcast you know what the tangent we need
a sign of every tangent we should honestly we should have like a shared folder we
just share links in because we'd have a much better podcast if we talked about
like things people could go read to form their own opinion and tell us we're
stupid but bank that go on yeah great idea great idea I just like yeah ten
years too late but beyond we better late than ever right now no so and I'm not
gonna remember enough of this but I remember what I remember AI in terms of
productivity boost what what this thing I read called out is that AI in terms of
predict productivity boost only is garnered when it's an experienced
developer yeah I believe that they're not seeing it from junior okay and you what
you want to share why you think before I yeah I think if you you you need the
discernment that experience gives you to understand when the code you're getting
is helpful versus unhelpful and choose to accept what and what not to accept
exactly yeah I'm a smart man right you ask it to write code right if you're an
experienced coder like using the code pilot helps you to get rid of the the the
the trivial part like the actual coding right right it's like no my art is the
design now build the design oh that's fantastic it's like a 3d printer for
code right but but I'm an expert so I'm now code reviewing github and if you
don't have the ability to code review github which is often the case with
junior coders you're not seeing that productivity boost now what I see is
happening now we see a lot of companies like Salesforce is not hiring
another sw e right that I think is gonna backfire for companies unless the dream
of an ASI comes to place and then we can get rid of us all because it is
traditionally unhealthy to not have like a pipeline where you have new recruits
coming in and old people yeah right yeah the so here's what I think is going to
be happening sometimes those who have helped AI to succeed are gonna be favored
more than those who haven't okay it's a because those who help AI to succeed are
ones that are actively working in that space using AI building AI okay and
that's whether or not you're dev or a data scientist like I see most of the
world shifting over the next couple of years towards just using it yeah the I
know you finished okay additionally those who could do both are meaning both
sort of data science and I'm quoting data science now and coding are gonna do
better than those who can only do one mm-hmm okay what I foresee is going to
happen is high-tech companies first off they're there this is what I think is
gonna happen is we're gonna see layoffs and firings continue but new openings
created but at a lower pace getting than is traditional Oh interesting because you
may not be wrong it just supply and demand right it's supply and demand so
right now there's a glut of data scientists as a glut of developers how do
you take advantage of that right it's essentially all right if you have a high
supply and not enough to band right the price lowers so the average wage of high
tech I think I think we're gonna see that fall yeah you kind of see that
because I work at a media company who pay a little less than the tech companies
for the same experience I'm seeing people come in looking to downlevel
themselves quite a bit just to get a job so you can always see that happening in
a way people are across that's not true where I live where I work people
across the industry are taking lower paying jobs than they had in order to
have work and so that why doesn't that just continue so my other question is
that will continue for sure right for sure so but it also comes to a point like
companies are gonna stop growing so as many are gonna downsize the question I
have and there's probably an economic model for this do all the tech
companies that need to exist already exist if or or just enable could this
enable hundreds of more tech companies fill other niches to come up and take
and build things they can do things with 30 people that might have taken them a
hundred people to do I they're launched you know five years ago so I'm gonna
tell you that's my hope right we can always dream no so here's the thing
okay um and if we are absolutely 100% at the start of the AI age okay and it very
similar to like the 1850s when we when they were at the start of the industrial
age automation started coming in right and a lot of people got laid off okay
and because they could not adapt to the age um however that didn't last long
because the human ingenuity found new ways to grow right now that we have right
if we think about Steven Johnson right we the industrial age brought about a new
set of adjacent possible like a new set of things that are now possible okay so
the AI age is absolutely is absolutely going to create a new set of things that
are possible okay and I'm not gonna be so egotistical to say that human society
has already discovered 95% of all the things that are possible that to me is
just bullshit now the question though is will humans be needed to to obtain that
next set of possible things that I don't know because we are at the beginning of
the age I am hopeful that that our society will find new ways every other
age we have gone through has resulted in the boost in productivity and abundance
yeah as a population to rise and that certainly is a potential here it's a weird
time and if you remember it may even on the last but no like two podcasts ago
just like you know seven months ago whatever that was I actually brought up
the like and maybe I'll get out of the tech side of tech at some point maybe
I'll have to but I mentioned like I really you know I've grown really fond
of the people side studying how engagement works and I you know talked
to people who run you know not HR HR but employee growth those sorts of things
you know I you know I worked on the career guides for a couple versions at
Microsoft and built those I like all that stuff and and that part is probably
not going to be AI replaced I don't know I think the people part maybe won't so
maybe if I can focus on the people part that may be something that I do once I
get fired from I think it's gonna be so I am like I mentioned last episode going
through a divorce I'm sure it's there actually that's done it probably won't
surprise anyone on the call that I'm seeing a therapist and my therapist and I
talk about AI a lot and last time I think I upset her because she's like well
Brent what jobs do you think are at risk with AI and I'm like oh that's easy
not many just the ones that are dependent on oral or written language just
all the other ones are safe but not entirely because there's a degree of
empathy and interpersonal awareness and active listening etc that are required
for for for engagement to happen I can't AI is not going to replace that you
are aware so here's my fear you are aware of the studies that show things
like social media has in certain culture changes have driven up the degree of
loneliness in the world there is for example there is a male loneliness
epidemic in flight right now today oh yeah yeah okay um dudes have no friends
right a little AI that can fake empathy it's not if you're lonely dude it's not
gonna take much to have that we thought we saw the movie her a few years ago
yeah you could see that happening but I just there's so much context I don't
maybe the figures of a lot I don't know I think maybe we are all screwed I'm
trying to find a path where we are all are all just sitting at home eating
bon-bon no the path that has to happen in my view oh there's two things that
I I just discovered something else last week that I'm super excited about but I
haven't figured out how to had to turn it into action I'll share the second the
AI apocalypse will absolutely be done if ever community within within human
society is destroyed or significantly destroyed right and in there even then
lies our hope I would say because if the AI apocalypse begins to happen right
humans will join communities around defending against it okay so we're
screwed we're entirely screwed this just if if if a dude comes and offers you two
pills dude take the take the green one um I'll just take a handful of them but
there's one thing that I did you ever study a manual comp yeah you did okay I
did too theoretically undergrad first time I took philosophy for selective I got an
F in it the second time I got a D nice work yeah did not pay attention to it
did not care about it I'm still mostly don't however I recently came across a
YouTube thing on it and now I'm like listen to an audiobook on this one of the
things that he felt very strongly was that human consciousness was the single
most precious gift human society has ever had and he felt that it was immoral if
it was ever used poorly so one of the things he he brought about for example
that the means do not justify the ends ever particularly if the means
includes suppressing any number of people's consciousness and I'm like okay
so I've done I've been using open AI to help me understand how a manual comp
would feel about open AI and it's starting to form up like what I view is
like a lot of the responsible AI things are today or a discussion around what's
ethical okay I don't what to avoid isn't sufficient I feel like we should be
driving towards what's the maximum of ethical if if we like right now the
thing that scares the crap out of me is how many data scientists exist in this
world today who who are trying to build an ASI to see if we can wait what's the
name of that guy the famous futurist like Ray Worsile or something like he
apparently and I'm gonna murder his name futurist race Oh Ray Kerr Kurzweil okay
Ray Worsile he apparently really wants an ASI because he thinks we need an ASI to
exist in order to create the capability such that he can trans move his
consciousness into the internet because he wants to live forever oh god and I'm
like of course there are people like that right it's like no I need an ASI because
I need it to do my bidding you dumbass like it's been talked about over and over
again once an ASI is exists we will not be able to control it you won't be able
to get it to do crap anyway Wow yeah like you're right so um is the answer
were I mean what happens when I'm so here's what the other last thing I
thought about in terms of where there's some hope okay as all these companies and
countries go to try to race towards the first EGI in the ASI like why are they
trying to do that in order to produce okay but as that happens what's gonna
happen is we're gonna see might probably layoffs right unemployment rising so
we have all these companies producing things but increasingly humans out of a
job so now again supplying demand so we have companies producing a high in the
amount of supply but there's no demand because nobody can afford nice things so
what happens what happens is that these companies have to reduce their price now
what happens if that price doesn't pay for the cost of these advanced AI
systems that they have because they they all require compute they all require
electricity right um and again if human society gets to the point where
everyone's unemployed these companies fail yeah I even even the even the cats
mad even the yeah no she's like that's a good point friend all right well on that
beautiful note I think I'm gonna put some rocks in my pocket maybe go walk
take a long walk into the ocean no I'll wait and see what happens I'm I have to
think you know there's you studied systems thinking systems theory these
changes are gonna happen so other changes that we have not anticipated will
also happen and there'll be some sort of balance I'm not sure are those could
be those don't may not be technological they'd be socio-economic they may be
socio-political it could be any sorts of things will happen to make you know
the world won't end but it's sure gonna change it will change in into your point
like the number one law of systematics which is a key theory when they follow
around systems theory and that is the number of problems in the universe is
constant yeah so once this thing's come it's gonna it's gonna solve a bunch of
problems but it's gonna create a bunch the only thing I tell people is very
similar to what you and I were telling people when we started this podcast paying
attention and adapting to the new direction is is the only thing right and
I can tell you and burying your head in the sand and ignoring it and saying it's
a fad is going to get you you know into a bad place you're you're gonna be the
first in the unemployment line all right well let's call it there I'm sad
Alan I am NOT all right let's we'll see you in a couple weeks to a couple months
we'll see what happens on our recording schedule bye bye